---
title: "Network Representation of Large-Scale Heterogeneous RNA Sequences with Integration of Diverse Multi-omics, Interactions, and Annotations Data."
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2020-01-01-rna2rna
excerpt: 'A graph embedding model that simultaneously model directed interaction and undirected affinity edges for the RNA-RNA interactome by using deep learning to extract features from variable-length heterogenous sequences.'
date: 2015-10-01
venue: 'Pacific Symposium on Biocomputing'
paperurl: 'https://psb.stanford.edu/psb-online/proceedings/psb20/Tran.pdf'
citation: 'Tran, Nhat, and Jean Gao. "Network Representation of Large-Scale Heterogeneous RNA Sequences with Integration of Diverse Multi-omics, Interactions, and Annotations Data." Pacific Symposium on Biocomputing. 2020.'
---
Long non-coding RNA (lncRNA), microRNA, and messenger RNA enable key regulations of
various biological processes through a variety of diverse interaction mechanisms. Identifying
the interactions and cross-talk between these heterogeneous RNA classes is essential in order
to uncover the functional role of individual RNA transcripts, especially for unannotated and
sparsely discovered RNA sequences with no known interactions. Recently, sequence-based
deep learning and network embedding methods are gaining traction as high-performing and
flexible approaches that can either predict RNA-RNA interactions from sequence or infer missing interactions from patterns that may exist in the network topology. However, most of the
current methods have several limitations, e.g., the inability to perform inductive predictions,
to distinguish the directionality of interactions, or to integrate various sequence, interaction,
expression, and genomic annotation datasets. We proposed a novel deep learning framework,
rna2rna, which learns from RNA sequences to produce a low-dimensional embedding that
preserves proximities in both the interaction topology and the functional affinity topology.
In this proposed embedding space, the two-part “source and target contexts”capture the
receptive fields of each RNA transcript to encapsulate heterogeneous cross-talk interactions
between lncRNAs and microRNAs. The proximity between RNAs in this embedding space
also uncovers the second-order relationships that allow for accurate inference of novel directed
interactions or functional similarities between any two RNA sequences. In a prospective
evaluation, our method exhibits superior performance compared to state-of-art approaches
at predicting missing interactions from several RNA-RNA interaction databases. Additional
results suggest that our proposed framework can capture a manifold for heterogeneous RNA
sequences to discover novel functional annotations.

[Download paper here](https://psb.stanford.edu/psb-online/proceedings/psb20/Tran.pdf)

Recommended citation: 

    @inproceedings{tran2020network,
      title={Network Representation of Large-Scale Heterogeneous RNA Sequences with Integration of Diverse Multi-omics, Interactions, and Annotations Data.},
      author={Tran, Nhat and Gao, Jean},
      booktitle={Pacific Symposium on Biocomputing. Pacific Symposium on Biocomputing},
      volume={25},
      pages={499--510},
      year={2020},
      organization={World Scientific}
    }